
holds an object reference to the view hierarchy with all the View instances. Hence, the memory footprint
of an Activity can grow large.
The position
in the stack determines the state of each Activity :
• Active in the foreground: D
• Paused and partly visible: C
• Stopped and invisible: B
• Inactive and destroyed: A


Intrinsic Lock and Java Monitor
The synchronized keyword operates on the intrinsic lock that is implicitly available in
every Java object.

The platform mainly has two ways of affecting the thread scheduling:
Priority
  Change the Linux thread priority.
Control group
  Change the Android-specific control group.

The Linux kernel scheduler is known as a completely fair scheduler (CFS). It is “fair” in
the sense that it tries to balance the execution of tasks not only based on the priority of
the thread but also by tracking the amount of execution time
  
In Android, a Linux thread has niceness values in the
range of -20 (most prioritized) to 19 (least prioritized)

Control groups
Android not only relies on the regular Linux CFS for thread scheduling, but also imposes
thread control groups 4 on all threads.

the most important ones for applications
are the Foreground Group and Background Group. The Android platform defines ex‐
ecution constraints so that the threads in the different control groups are allocated
different amounts of execution time on the processor

Threads in the Foreground Group
are allocated a lot more execution time than threads in the Background Group, 5 and
Android utilizes this to ensure that visible applications on the screen get more processor
allocation than applications that are not visible on the screen

Lowering the priority of a thread with Process.setThreadPriori
ty(Process.THREAD_PRIORITY_BACKGROUND) will not only reduce the
priority but also ensure that this thread is decoupled from the pro‐
cess level of the application and always put in the Background Group


asynchronous RPC
Binders also support asynchronous transactions, which you can specify by setting IBin
der.FLAG_ONEWAY . With that flag set, the client thread will call transact and return
immediately. A binder will continue calling onTransact on the binder thread in the
server process, but cannot return any data synchronously to the client thread
