The representation of an executing application in Java is the android.app.Applica
tion object, which is instantiated upon application start and destroyed when the ap‐
plication stops (i.e., an instance of the Application class lasts for the lifetime of the
Linux process of the application). When the process is terminated and restarted, a new
Application instance is created

Components
Activity , Service , BroadcastReceiver , and ContentProvider
The config‐uration and interaction of these components define the application’s behavior. These
entities have different responsibilities and lifecycles, but they all represent application
entry points, where the application can be started

Explicit Intent
Defines the fully classified name of the component, which is known within the
application at compile time
Implicit Intent
A runtime binding to a component that has defined a set of characteristics in an
IntentFilter . If the Intent matches the characteristics of a component’s Intent
Filter , the component can be started

Lifecycle
applications and processes have a one-to-one relationship
The application lifecycle is encapsulated within its Linux process, which, in Java, maps
to the android.app.Application class

The Application object for each app starts
when the runtime calls its onCreate() method. Ideally, the app terminates with a call
by the runtime to its onTerminate() , but an application cannot rely upon this. The
underlying Linux process may have been killed before the runtime had a chance to call
onTerminate() . The Application object is the first component to be instantiated in a
process and the last to be destroyed.

An application is started when one of its components is initiated for execution. Any
component can be the entry point for the application, and once the first component is
triggered to start, a Linux process is started

1. Start Linux process.
2. Create runtime.
3. Create Application instance.
4. Create the entry point component for the application.

Setting up a new Linux process and the runtime is not an instantaneous operation. It
can degrade performance and have a noticeable impact on the user experience. Thus,
the system tries to shorten the startup time for Android applications by starting a special
process called Zygote on system boot. Zygote has the entire set of core libraries preloa‐
ded. New application processes are forked from the Zygote process without copying the
core libraries, which are shared across all applications

Application termination
Because a user may request an application at any later time, the
runtime avoids destroying all its resources until the number of live applications leads
to an actual shortage of resources across the system
Hence, an application isn’t auto‐
matically terminated even when all of its components have been destroyed


it’s up to the runtime to decide which process
should be killed. To make this decision, the system imposes a ranking on each process
depending on the application’s visibility and the components that are currently execut‐
ing

With the highest first, the process ranks are:
Foreground
  Application has a visible component in front, Service is bound to an Activity in
front in a remote process, or BroadcastReceiver is running.
Visible
  Application has a visible component but is partly obscured.
Service
  Service is executing in the background and is not tied to a visible component.
Background
  A nonvisible Activity . This is the process level that contains most applications.
Empty
  A process without active components. Empty processes are kept around to improve
startup times, but they are the first to be terminated when the system reclaims
resources.
Table 1-1. Process rank transitions
Application state                            P1 process rank            P2 process rank
P1 starts with BroadcastReceiver entry point    Foreground                    N/A
P1 starts Activity                              Foreground                    N/A
P1 starts Service entry point in P2             Foreground                 Foreground
P1 Activity is destroyed                          Empty                     Service
P2 Service is stopped                             Empty                      Empty
